.ig \"-*- nroff -*-
Copyright (c) 2006,2007,2008 Katalix Systems Ltd.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
permission notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this
manual into another language, under the above conditions for modified
versions, except that this permission notice may be included in
translations approved by Katalix Systems Ltd instead of in
the original English.
..
.\"
.\" MAN PAGE COMMENTS to openl2tp-docs@lists.sourceforge.net
.\"
.TH openl2tpd.conf 5 "13 August 2007" "OpenL2TP" "OpenL2TP Manual"
.PD
.SH NAME
openl2tpd.conf \- OpenL2TP configuration file
.PD
.SH SYNOPSIS
This document describes the configuration file syntax of
.B OpenL2TP.
.PD
.SH DESCRIPTION
The configuration file syntax is the same as that written by
\fIl2tpconfig\fP's \fIconfig save\fP command. The file contains a
number of \fIl2tpconfig\fP \fIcreate\fP and \fImodify\fP commands,
though the commands aren't processed by l2tpconfig - they are
processed by \fIopenl2tpd\fP directly when it starts up and again if
it receives a \fISIGHUP\fP signal.
.PP
The preferred way to save and restore \fIopenl2tpd\fP configuration
information is to use the \fIl2tpconfig\fP utility's \fIconfig save\fP
and \fIconfig restore\fP commands. The local configuration file
support is usually enabled only when \fIl2tpconfig\fP is not
available.
.PP
See
.BR l2tpconfig ( 1 )
for a list of all available \fIcreate\fP and \fImodify\fP commands.
.PP
A \fI#\fP character on the first line is used to begin a comment line.
.PP
A \fI\\\fP character at the end of a line is used to break a long
command into multiple lines.
.PP
Commands are processed in order. If a \fItunnel create\fP command
references a named peer profile, the profile must be created before
the \fItunnel create\fP command.
.PP
A config file written by the \fIconfig save\fP command of the
\fIl2tpconfig\fP utility may be copied to \fI/etc/openl2tpd.conf\fP if
desired, in order to have the configuration automatically applied when
\fIopenl2tpd\fP restarts. However, the preferred method to reload
saved configuration is to use \fIl2tpconfig config restore
file=xxx\fP.
.PD
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf

tunnel profile create profile_name=one \\
	hello_timeout=30

tunnel create tunnel_name=one dest_ipaddr=10.1.2.3 \\
	profile_name=one

.fi
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.br
.BR l2tpconfig ( 1 ),
.BR openl2tp ( 7 ),
.BR openl2tpd ( 8 ),
