.ig \"-*- nroff -*-
Copyright (c) 2004,2005,2006,2007,2008 Katalix Systems Ltd.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
permission notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this
manual into another language, under the above conditions for modified
versions, except that this permission notice may be included in
translations approved by Katalix Systems Ltd instead of in
the original English.
..
.\"
.\" MAN PAGE COMMENTS to openl2tp-docs@lists.sourceforge.net
.\"
.TH openl2tpd 8 "13 August 2007" "OpenL2TP" "OpenL2TP Manual"
.PD
.SH NAME
openl2tpd \- L2TP protocol daemon
.PD
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.na
.B openl2tpd [\-f] [\-R] [\-D] [\-d debugmask] [\-L log-facility] [\-p plugin-file]
.br
.B \t [\-u udp-port] [\-c config-file] [\-S] [\-y ppp-throttle-rate]
.ad b
.hy 1
.PD
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B openl2tpd
implements the control message protocols of L2TP version 2 as
specified in RFC2661. It is required to setup, maintain and teardown
L2TP tunnels and sessions.
.PP
For general information on the features of
.B OpenL2TP
refer to
.BR openl2tp ( 7 ).
.PD
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-d \fIdebugmask\fP
Set the system-wide debug trace message mask. The mask may be
specified as a decimal or hexadecimal integer or as a comma-separated
list of trace categories. Trace messages are categorized as SYSTEM,
API, PROTOCOL, FSM (finite state machine), DATA, FUNC (functions),
XPRT (transport), AVP, AVPHIDE and AVPDATA. Each category of message
may be enabled/disabled when L2TP is first started using this
option. See the
.SM DEBUGGING
section below.
.TP
.B \-D
Enable debug messages from all created tunnels and sessions. By
default, new tunnels and sessions do not cause trace messages to be
output unless the tunnel or session trace_flags parameter is set,
perhaps via their profile. This flag sets the default profiles'
trace_flags to all-enabled. It is provided as a convenient shortcut to
setting the trace_flags of all default profiles to all-enabled.
.B \-f
Run in the foreground. By default,
.B openl2tpd
forks itself and runs in the background. For debugging, it is
sometimes useful to run the application in the foreground. Note that
when run in the foreground, any trace messages are sent to the
controlling terminal rather than to syslog.
.TP
.B \-L \fIlog-facility\fP
By default,
.B openl2tpd
logs messages to the LOG_DAEMON syslog facility. This option may be used
to log messages to one of the localN facilities instead (local0..local7)
so that the logged messages can be directed via syslog configuration
to a separate file or syslog server. See 
.BR syslog.conf ( 5 )
for how to configure syslog.
.TP
.B \-p \fIplugin-file\fP
Loads the named L2TP PPP plugin (a shared library supporting the 
.B OpenL2TP
plugin interface). By default, the \fIppp_unix\fP plugin is loaded,
which makes
.B openl2tpd
use the standard UNIX 
.B pppd
PPP daemon. The ability to load a different plugin allows 
.B openl2tpd 
to interface with other (possibly proprietary) PPP implementations
without requiring internal changes to
.B openl2tpd
itself. Plugins are installed in \fI/usr/lib/openl2tp/\fP. More than
one plugin may be loaded by specifying multiple
.I \-p
options.
.TP
.B \-R
Enables remote management. 
.B openl2tpd
is controlled using Sun RPC requests. Sun RPC requests may be sent
over a network so a control application implementing the
.B OpenL2TP RPC API
documented in
.BR openl2tp_rpc ( 4 )
may control
.B openl2tpd
remotely. In most environments, remote configuration isn't useful so is
disabled by default. However, in closed cluster or chassis systems where
several instances of
.B openl2tpd
may be running on different CPUs, the ability to control
.B openl2tpd
over a network using RPC is extremely useful.
.TP
.B \-u \fIudp-port\fP
Tells
.B openl2tpd
to listen on the specified port rather than the default L2TP port (1701).
.TP
.B \-c \fIconfig-file\fP
Read configuration commands from the specified file rather than the
default \fI/etc/openl2tpd.conf\fP. This option may not be available in
all environments since it is an installation option. If not available,
use \fIl2tpconfig\fP's \fIconfig restore\fP command instead.
.TP
.B \-S
Enable \fIopenl2tpd\fP system status files. When this option is given,
\fIopenl2tpd\fP writes status information to files under
\fI/var/run/openl2tpd\fP for each profile, peer, tunnel and
session. These may be read using any standard file access mechanism to
examine status of \fIopenl2tpd\fP. This option may not be available in
all environments since it is an installation option. If not available,
use \fIl2tpconfig\fP commands instead.
.TP
.B \-y \fIppp-throttle-rate\fP
When starting or stopping ppp processes per session, this option will
cause openl2tpd to limit the number of active processes to the
specified value. PPP processes are deemed active when they are trying
to connect to their peer or when they are being shut down. Note that
this parameter does not limit the total number of pppd processes - it
only limits the number of those processes that are created or deleted
simultaneously by openl2tpd. Use this option when starting openl2tpd
if the system becomes overloaded when lots of sessions are created or
deleted simultaneously, for example when persistant tunnels
recover. Most users are unlikely to need this option.
.PD
.SH CONFIGURATION
Configuration is typically done using an
application supporting 
.B OpenL2TP's
RPC interface documented in 
.BR openl2tp_rpc ( 4 ).
One such application is 
.BR l2tpconfig ( 1 )
which is bundled with 
.B OpenL2TP
and which provides an intuitive command line interface.
.PP
Since
.B OpenL2TP
uses Sun RPC which is available in most commercial operating systems
including Microsoft Windows, Sun Solaris and even embedded RTOS such
as WindRiver's VxWorks, custom management applications may be developed
to control 
.BR openl2tpd .
.PP
Where RPC is not available, the system administrator may install
.B OpenL2TP
with local config file support. If this feature is enabled, the config
file is read at startup and when \fIopenl2tpd\fP receives a
\fISIGHUP\fP signal. Most environments will use the \fIl2tpconfig\fP
utility's \fIconfig restore\fP command to load a previously saved
configuration..
.PD
.SH DEBUGGING
Many problems can be debugged without enabling debug logging.
.B openl2tpd
maintains numerous counters that can help with problem diagnosis.  At
the system level, the total number of good/bad L2TP control messages
received of each message type are counted, as are the total number of
illegal messages received, the number of vendor-specific AVPs
received, tunnel authentication failures, session setup failures,
resource allocation failures, sequence number errors and so on. Each
tunnel keeps detailed status about the low-level L2TP transport such
as next sequence number to be sent, sequence number expected next from
peer, number of ZLB messages sent and received, number of HELLO
messages sent and received and the number of data packets sent and
received. Thus the first stage of problem diagnosis should always be
to examine system status and statistics.
.PP
General status and statistics available will often point to where the
problem lies, but it may also be necessary to obtain trace from the system.
.B OpenL2TP
allows very fine levels of control over system logging, right down to
individual message categories of specific tunnel or session instances.
A modifiable \fItrace_flags\fP
parameter is a trace message mask. Each tunnel and session instance has
a \fItrace_flags\fP parameter, the initial value of which is set from a 
tunnel or session profile. 
.PP
\fItrace_flags\fP is defined as a 32-bit bitmask, where bits are defined
as follows:-
.LP
.nf
Type        Bitmask       Description
PROTOCOL    1             L2TP control protocol messages
FSM         2             State Machine events and state changes
API         4             Management interface
AVP         8             L2TP message attributes
AVP_HIDE    16            AVP hiding mechanism
AVP_DATA    32            AVP contents
FUNC        64            Low level operations
XPRT        128           Transport
DATA        256           Protocol data
SYSTEM      512           Internal system functions
PPP         1024          PPP operations
.fi
.PP
To debug a locally created tunnel creation, for example, create the
tunnel as usual, but also specify a value for the tunnel's
\fItrace_flags\fP parameter.
.PP
To debug incoming tunnels or sessions, identify or create a tunnel or
session profile that will be used for the incoming request, then
modify the tunnel or session profile's \fItrace_flags\fP parameter in
the same way as described above.
.PP
The \fItrace_flags\fP parameter may be specified as an
decimal/hexadecimal integer value or as a comma-separated list of
trace options from the above list, e.g.
.nf
	trace_flags=protocol,fsm,avp
.fi
.PP
Note that changing a profile's parameter value affects only new
instances created using that profile; instances already created
continue to use the parameter value that existed at the time of
creation.
.PP
If \fIopenl2tpd\fP is started with the \-D command line flag, all
tunnels and sessions are created with \fItrace_flags\fP set to trace
all message categories, unless \fItrace_flags\fP is overridden using a
specific \fItrace_flags\fP value as described above..
.PD
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Please report bugs to <openl2tp-bugs@lists.sourceforge.net>.
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.br
.BR openl2tp ( 7 ),
.BR openl2tpd ( 8 ),
.BR openl2tpd.conf ( 5 ),
.BR openl2tp_rpc ( 4 )
